Tutorial of building postgis package
====================================

Overview
--------

Let's set out to build ''postgis''. This package is installable with conda if you
have access to an appropriate channel, so we are not flying blind. But we'll
start out naively and try to learn some things along the way.

We will build ''postgis'' 2.1.3 (the current version as of 14th of July 2014).

The step-by-step sequence is fairly repetitive in the sense that there are only
a few sequences of actions you must take to build conda packages, although you
may have to repeat them multiple times to build a package with many
dependencies. You'll see once we get into the steps. First, let's lay out the
abstract game plan. Understanding what we have to accomplish will demystify the
process considerably.

Abstract Description of conda build
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We begin building a package by pointing conda to a directory with a ''build.sh''
(for Linux and MacOSX, Windows uses ''bld.bat'' file) and ''meta.yaml'' file.
Respectively, these files specify the command line instructions to build a
particular package from source, and information about where to download the
source files and dependencies that the package requires. If these files are
configured correctly,

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

obtains the source files from the location specified in ''meta.yaml'' and, following the
commands in ''build.sh'', builds the package locally. During this process, conda
generates metadata about the build and sets up relocatable links (relative to
the local build) so that the package, once built, is transportable. Once
complete, the package build plus all conda-created metadata is bundled and
uploaded to `binstar.org <http://binstar.org/>`_, where it can be access via below commands:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda search
    $ conda install

Here, we'll start out naively and make adjustments to the ''build.sh'' and
''meta.yaml'' files as we go, until the package is successfully built.

Build Steps
-----------

Initial Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Locate source files for the package you want to build. In this case, I found a
''postgis''
`tarball <http://download.osgeo.org/postgis/source/postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz>`_ here.
Reading the documentation, I can already see there are dependencies, but for
the purposes of illustrating the steps, we will start at zero and see how far
we get.

Create a directory where conda build will find the ''build.sh'' and ''meta.yaml''
files. Create files with the following bare-bones contents (appropriate to the
package you are tyring to build):

.. code-block:: bash
    $ mkdir postgis
    $ cd postgis
    $ touch build.sh meta.yaml
    $ ls
    build.sh  meta.yaml

Now setup ''build.sh'' like this:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ more build.sh

    ./configure --prefix=${PREFIX}
    make || exit 1
    make install || exit 1

This is the minimal set of commands that might build a package from source that
was created with autotools (autoconf, automake, etc), the standard format
you'll encounter for packaging source code distributions. Including
''--prefix=${PREFIX}'' here tells ''configure'' to set the installation path to
''${PREFIX}'', an environment variable set by conda during runtime. This is a key
instruction to have conda configure and install locally, rather than try to
access root-level directories such as ''/usr'', which is the default installation
path in normal circumstances. If you want to follow more details of what conda
is doing to configure the environment, add to your ''build.sh'' file:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ echo ${PREFIX}

The basic ''meta.yaml'' file looks like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
    package:
      name: postgis

    source:
      fn: postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz
      url: http://download.osgeo.org/postgis/source/postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz

    build:
      number: 0

    about:
      home: http://postgis.net
      license: GPL2

The dependencies will be listed under the requirements key, but that is
commented out for now as we are assuming no dependencies at first.

First Build Attempt
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In ''postgis'' directory, try:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

If you are familiar building packages from source, you will recognize the log
generated by the configure script. The first error message I encounter is:

.. code-block:: bash
    configure: error: could not find pg_config within the current path.
    You may need to try re-running configure with a --with-pg_config parameter.

I'm being asked to specify a path to the utility ''pg_config''. I do ''$ which
pg_config'' and find that it's not installed. The philosophy of conda packaging
is that you bundle what you need, so this utility has to be included in the
package. I do:

Some searching indicates pg_config is distributed with postgresql, so let me
check that out. A search on `binstar.org <https://binstar.org/>`_ for conda
packages with the name ''postgresql'' yields some results. I'll try to install
from one of the binstar channels. First the channel must be added with:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda config --add channels https://conda.binstar.org/trent

which I can verify by inspecting:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda info

                 platform : linux-64
            conda version : 3.5.2
           python version : 2.7.7.final.0
         root environment : /home/irritum/miniconda  (writable)
      default environment : /home/irritum/miniconda
         envs directories : /home/irritum/miniconda/envs
            package cache : /home/irritum/miniconda/pkgs
             channel URLs : http://repo.continuum.io/pkgs/free/linux-64/
                            http://repo.continuum.io/pkgs/pro/linux-64/
                            http://repo.continuum.io/pkgs/gpl/linux-64/
                            http://conda.binstar.org/mutirri/linux-64/
              config file : /home/irritum/.condarc
        is foreign system : False

Above command works without any problems and ''postgresql'' package is now available in my environment.
Now I can return to the build of ''postgis''. I know that ''postgresql'' (and
specifically the need for ''pg_config'') is a dependency, so I should include that
in the ''meta.yaml'' file and add the flag ''--with-pgconfig'' to the configure
command, as the script requested.

.. code-block:: yaml
    package:
      name: postgis

    source:
      fn: postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz
      url: http://download.osgeo.org/postgis/source/postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz

    build:
      number: 0

    requirements:
      build:
        - postgresql
      run:
        - postgresql

    about:
      home: http://postgis.net
      license: GPL2

And I have added the flag ''--with-pgconfig=${PREFIX}/bin/pg_config'' to the
configure command in ''build.sh''. You can verify that ''pg_config'' is located in the
bin directory specified, under your anaconda/miniconda build.

ERROR - geos-config
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The next error encountered is:

.. code-block:: bash
    checking for geos-config... no
    configure: error: could not find geos-config within the current path. You may need to try re-running configure with a --with-geosconfig parameter.

On the other hand:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda search geos

does not turn up an available package at this moment, so I will build
this from source, following the same routine we've done a couple times now:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ mkdir geos-3.4.2
    $ cd geos-3.4.2/
    $ cp ../postgresql-9.3.4/meta.yaml .
    $ cp ../postgresql-9.3.4/build.sh .

I edit the ''meta.yaml'' and ''build.sh'' files to reflect the details of this package (no dependencies or special flags set):

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .
    $ binstar upload /home/irritum/code/miniconda/conda-bld/linux-64/geos-3.4.2-0.tar.bz2

after the package is successfully built:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda install geos

gives me the package in my environment and I can continue, after adding the
dependencies in ''meta.yaml'' of ''postgis''. At this point the conda recipe files look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
    package:
      name: postgis

    source:
      fn: postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz
      url: http://download.osgeo.org/postgis/source/postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz

    build:
      number: 0

    requirements:
      build:
        - postgresql
        - geos
      run:
        - postgresql
        - geos

    about:
      home: http://postgis.net
      license: GPL2

And ''build.sh'' file:

.. code-block:: bash
    #!/bin/sh

    ./configure \
        --prefix=${PREFIX} \
        --with-pgconfig=${PREFIX}/bin/pg_config \
        --with-geosconfig=${PREFIX}/bin/geos-config \

    make || exit 1
    make install || exit 1

A Reminder
""""""""""

As you go through this cycle of steps, remember to update the conda build
recipes to reflect the dependencies that you are installing. You may install
packages, but if the build recipes do not reflect it, you will still encounter
errors. For example, if you have installed a geos package but not specified the
requirement in ''meta.yaml'' or the path flag in ''build.sh'', you will see an error
like this:

.. code-block:: bash
    configure: error: could not find libgeos_c - you may need to specify the directory of a geos-config file using --with-geosconfig

ERROR - proj
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The next error I hit is

.. code-block:: bash
    configure: error: could not find proj_api.h - you may need to specify the directory of a PROJ.4 installation using --with-projdir

Build proj
^^^^^^^^^^

''proj-4.8.0'' can be built from source in the same way. It should not have
non-standard dependencies. I uploaded my package as proj and then did ''$ conda
install proj''. I include ''- proj'' under requirements in ''meta.yaml'' and add the flag
''--with-projdir=${PREFIX}'' in ''build.sh'' file.

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

At this point the series of dependencies I have assembled is reflected by the conda build script's output:

.. code-block:: bash

    package                    |            build
    ---------------------------|-----------------
    geos-3.4.2                 |                0   hard-link
    postgresql-9.3.4           |                0   hard-link
    proj-4.8.0                 |                0   hard-link
    zlib-1.2.7                 |                0   hard-link

ERROR - gdal
------------

Next I encountered:

.. code-block:: bash
    checking for gdal-config... no
    checking GDAL version... not found
    configure: error: gdal-config not found. Use --without-raster or try --with-gdalconfig=<path to gdal-config>

Is this package available?

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda search gdal
    Fetching package metadata: ......
    gdal                         1.10.1                   py33_0  defaults
                                 1.10.1                   py27_0  defaults
                                 1.10.1                   py26_0  defaults
                                 1.10.1               np18py34_2  defaults
                                 1.10.1               np18py33_2  defaults
                              .  1.10.1               np18py27_2  defaults
                                 1.10.1               np18py26_2  defaults
    gdaltokmz                    1.0                      py27_0  public

Yes, so I can do:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda install gdal

and include ''- gdal'' as a requirement in ''meta.yaml'', as well as add the flag
''--with-gdalconfig=${PREFIX}/bin'' in ''build.sh'' file.

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

ERROR - json-c
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash
    configure: error: Cannot find json dev files in "/home/irritum/miniconda/envs/_build"

After doing some research (mostly documentation of ''postgis''), I have found
that I need a ''json-c'' package. So, once again:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda search json-c
    Fetching package metadata: ...............
    json-c                       0.11.20130402                 0  http://conda.binstar.org/trent/linux-64/ 

Notice that in my ''.condarc'' file I have trent channel, where ''json-c'' is available.
I'm going to use it, so I add:

.. code-block:: bash
    --with-jsondir=${PREFIX}

to ''build.sh'' and:

.. code-block:: yaml
    - json-c

Now, my ''meta.yaml'' file looks:

.. code-block:: yaml
    package:
      name: postgis

    source:
      fn: postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz
      url: http://download.osgeo.org/postgis/source/postgis-2.1.3.tar.gz

    build:
      number: 0

    requirements:
      build:
        - postgresql
        - geos
        - proj4
        - gdal
        - json-c
      run:
        - postgresql
        - geos
        - proj4
        - gdal
        - json-c

    about:
      home: http://postgis.net
      license: GPL2

And ''build.sh'':

.. code-block:: bash

    ./configure \
        --prefix=${PREFIX} \
        --with-pgconfig=${PREFIX}/bin/pg_config \
        --with-geosconfig=${PREFIX}/bin/geos-config \
        --with-projdir=${PREFIX} \
        --with-jsondir=${PREFIX}

    make || exit 1
    make install || exit 1

ERROR - libxml2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Try again:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

The next error message from ''configure'' is:

.. code-block:: bash
    checking for xml2-config... no
    configure: error: could not find xml2-config from libxml2 within the current path. You may need to try re-running configure with a --with-xml2config parameter.

I need to install ''libxml2'' package. See if it's available:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda search libxml2
    Fetching package metadata: ......

    $ conda install libxml2

I accordingly update the ''meta.yaml'' file to include ''- libxml2'' in the ''build.sh'' file and re-run whole process one more time:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .

Final step
^^^^^^^^^^

Finally I'm adding some interesting options from my point of view to ''build.sh'' file:

.. code-block:: bash
    --with-libiconv=${PREFIX} \
    --with-raster \
    --with-topology

And that's all:

.. code-block:: bash
    $ conda build .
    ...
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/bin/pgsql2shp
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/../lib
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/bin/raster2pgsql
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/../lib
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/bin/shp2pgsql
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/../lib
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/lib/liblwgeom-2.1.3.so
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/.
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/lib/postgresql/postgis-2.1.so
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/..
    patchelf: file: /home/gergely/code/miniconda/envs/_build/lib/postgresql/rtpostgis-2.1.so
        setting rpath to: $ORIGIN/..
    BUILD END: postgis-2.1.3-0
    Nothing to test for: postgis-2.1.3-0
    # If you want to upload this package to binstar.org later, type:
    #
    # $ binstar upload /home/gergely/code/miniconda/conda-bld/linux-32/postgis-2.1.3-0.tar.bz2
    #
    # To have conda build upload to binstar automatically, use
    # $ conda config --set binstar_upload yes

If you'd methodically followed along, you now have a ''postgis'' package you can
upload and install. Along the way, you've created several other conda packages
that may be useful in their own right.

Please consider uploading all of your own conda recipes to `conda-recipes
repository <https://github.com/conda/conda-recipes>`_ repository.

