docs/source/user-guide/cheatsheet.rst, before:

==========
Cheatsheet
==========

Refer to the conda cheatsheet for basic commands for creating and managing environments, installing packages, and importing and exporting environments.

Quickstart
==========

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/quickstart.csv

Channels and Packages
=====================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/channels-and-packages.csv

Working with Conda Environments
===============================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/working-with-environments.csv

Environment Management
======================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/environment-management.csv

Exporting Environments
======================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/exporting-environments.csv

Importing Environments
======================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/importing-environments.csv

Additional Hints
================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/additional-hints.csv

Commit message:

Added cheatsheet PDF download to cheatsheet page

docs/source/user-guide/cheatsheet.rst, after:

==========
Cheatsheet
==========

The conda cheatsheet contains the most important information about using conda, such as basic commands for creating and managing environments, installing packages, and importing and exporting environments.

See the :download:`conda cheatsheet <cheatsheets/conda-cheatsheet.pdf>` PDF (3 MB) for a downloadable, single-page version.

Quickstart
==========

.. tip::

   It is recommended to create a new environment for any new project or workflow.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/quickstart.csv

Channels and Packages
=====================

.. tip::

   Package dependencies and platform specifics are automatically resolved when using conda.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/channels-and-packages.csv

Working with Conda Environments
===============================

.. tip::

   List environments at the beginning of your session. Environments with an asterisk are active.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/working-with-environments.csv

Environment Management
======================

.. tip::

   Specifying the environment name confines conda commands to that environment.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/environment-management.csv

Exporting Environments
======================

.. tip::

   Name your export file after your environment to preserve your environment name.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/exporting-environments.csv

Importing Environments
======================

.. tip::

   When importing an environment, conda resolves platform and package specifics.

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/importing-environments.csv

Additional Hints
================

.. csv-table::
    :widths: 42 58
    :header-rows: 0
    :file: cheatsheets/additional-hints.csv
