docs/source/user-guide/concepts/installing-with-conda.rst, before:

=====================
Installing with conda
=====================

.. image:: /img/installing-with-conda.png
    :align: right

.. _installing-with-conda:


To install conda packages, in the terminal or an Anaconda Prompt, run::

  conda install [packagename]


During the install process, files are extracted into the specified
environment, defaulting to the current environment if none is specified.
Installing the files of a conda package into an
environment can be thought of as changing the directory to an
environment, and then downloading and extracting the artifact
and its dependencies---all with the single
``conda install [packagename]`` command.

Read more about :doc:`conda environments and directory structure <../concepts/environments>`.

* When you ``conda install`` a package that exists in a channel and has no dependencies, conda:

  * Looks at your configured channels (in priority).

  * Reaches out to the repodata associated with your channels/platform.

  * Parses repodata to search for the package.

  * Once the package is found, conda pulls it down and installs.

Conda update versus conda install
=================================

``conda update`` is used to update to the latest compatible version.
``conda install`` can be used to install any version.

Example:

* If Python 2.7.0 is currently installed, and the latest version of Python 2 is 2.7.5, then ``conda update python`` installs Python 2.7.5. It does not install Python 3.

* If Python 3.7.0 is currently installed, and the latest version of Python is 3.9.0, then ``conda install python=3`` installs Python 3.9.0.

Conda uses the same rules for other packages. ``conda update`` always installs the highest version with the same major version number, whereas ``conda install`` always installs the highest version.


Installing conda packages offline
=================================

To install conda packages offline, run:
``conda install /path-to-package/package-filename.tar.bz2/``

If you prefer, you can create a /tar/ archive file containing
many conda packages and install them all with one command:
``conda install /packages-path/packages-filename.tar``

.. note::
   If an installed package does not work, it may be missing
   dependencies that need to be resolved manually.

Installing packages directly from the file does not resolve
dependencies.


Installing conda packages with a specific build number
======================================================

If you want to install conda packages with the correct package specification, try
``pkg_name=version=build_string``. Read more about `build strings and package naming conventions <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/concepts/package-naming-conv.html#index-2>`_.
Learn more about `package specifications and metadata <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/resources/package-spec.html#package-metadata>`_.

For example, if you want to install llvmlite 0.31.0dev0 on Python 3.7.8, you
would enter::

    conda install  -c numba/label/dev llvmlite=0.31.0dev0=py37_8

Commit message:

Fix flow chart on user-guide/concepts/installing-with-conda (#13377)
Fixed misaligned image and updated the article text.

---------

Co-authored-by: Katherine Kinnaman <kkinnaman@anaconda.com>
Co-authored-by: Bianca Henderson <beeankha@gmail.com>

docs/source/user-guide/concepts/installing-with-conda.rst, after:

=====================
Installing with conda
=====================

.. _installing-with-conda:

Conda packages can be installed by running the following command::

  conda install <package>

When conda installs a package, it is automatically added to your active
environment. These packages are collections of files and directories
that make up everything you need to use that particular
library or software. For Python packages, these are primarily Python
files that can be imported into other Python applications, but for compiled
software packages, such as ``ffmpeg``, these are typically binary executables
you use directly on your computer.

.. admonition:: Note

    If you would like to learn more about how environments are structured,
    head over to :doc:`conda environments<../concepts/environments>`.

Below is a more precise overview of everything that happens during the installation
process for a single package:

* Currently configured channels (e.g. ``defaults`` or ``conda-forge``) are read in order of priority
* Repodata for these configured channels is downloaded and read
* The repodata is searched for the package, starting with the highest priority channel first
* Once the package is found, conda makes a separate download request and then installs it
* This process then repeats for each of the package's dependencies, if there are any

A graphic illustration of this process is shown below:

.. image:: /img/installing-with-conda.png
    :align: center

Conda update versus conda install
=================================

``conda update`` updates packages to the latest compatible version.
``conda install`` can be used to install any version.

Example:

* If Python 2.7.0 is currently installed, and the latest version of Python 2 is 2.7.5, then ``conda update python`` installs Python 2.7.5. It does not install Python 3.

* If Python 3.7.0 is currently installed, and the latest version of Python is 3.9.0, then ``conda install python=3`` installs Python 3.9.0.

Conda uses the same rules for other packages. ``conda update`` always installs the highest version with the same major version number, whereas ``conda install`` always installs the highest version.


Installing conda packages offline
=================================

To install conda packages offline, run:
``conda install /path-to-package/package-filename.tar.bz2/``

If you prefer, you can create a /tar/ archive file containing
many conda packages and install them all with one command:
``conda install /packages-path/packages-filename.tar``

.. note::
   If an installed package does not work, it may be missing
   dependencies that need to be resolved manually.

Installing packages directly from the file does not resolve
dependencies.


Installing conda packages with a specific build number
======================================================

If you want to install conda packages with the correct package specification, try
``pkg_name=version=build_string``. Read more about `build strings and package naming conventions <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/concepts/package-naming-conv.html#index-2>`_.
Learn more about `package specifications and metadata <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/resources/package-spec.html#package-metadata>`_.

For example, if you want to install llvmlite 0.31.0dev0 on Python 3.7.8, you
would enter::

    conda install  -c numba/label/dev llvmlite=0.31.0dev0=py37_8
